Add 'Together for a healthier Clippy' (#1869)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: content/inside-rust/unite-for-clippy/index.md

Reviewer: I think it would be good to mention the prior art by Bevy? Otherwise this proposal might sound as to be coming out of the blue..

Author: Bevy isn't mentioned because we might go for a different strategy.

Reviewer 2: I also think that we should mention Bevy and their blog post (?). After all this inspired us.

Maybe as a footnote of the last paragraph of the "What does this mean" section. Something along the lines of:

> This idea was originally inspired by the [Open Code Review](https://shaping.systems/blog/open-code-review/) approach of Bevy. The Clippy team will pick up on the idea and we set out to find a process that works best for the Clippy project.

Not sure what to link, so I linked their RustNL talk. I couldn't find an actual blog post about this. Maybe their docs?

Reviewer: This should be the blog post: https://shaping.systems/blog/open-code-review/

Reviewer 2: Thanks! Updated the link in my comment and added another sentence. After sleeping over it, I felt like we should clarify that we don't intend to 1:1 copy it, but that we want to find something that works best for Clippy (which this blog post announces)

+++
path = "inside-rust/9999/12/31/unite-for-clippy"
title = "United for a strong Clippy"
authors = ["blyxyas"]

[extra]
team = "the Clippy team"
team_url = "https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/dev-tools#team-clippy"
+++

> # United for a strong Clippy

Reviewer: This title gives me somewhat spooky, even authoratirian vibes 😅 Let's see what others think...

Author: In my defense, I did say the word "propaganda" in the All Hands meeting discussing this lol.
If the rest of the team agrees with you, I can tone down the whole article to sound more neutral / objective.

Reviewer: In that case I wonder if we could somehow convey that the title is supposed to be tongue-in-cheek^^

The article itself is fine though imo

Clippy is a very loved piece of software, with the fortune of having many contributors willing to do high-quality pull requests with very needed features and bug-fixes. We are extremely thankful for every single contributor who not only took the time to learn about Clippy’s internals, but also felt comfortable enough to show their work and maintained communication in order to ship it.

That’s why we’re addressing them with this health report of Clippy as an open source project.

> The truth is that Clippy has a reviewing capacity problem, and we’ve been having it for the last few months. We have an insane burnout index due to none of us being paid to work on Clippy full-time. With this lack of official support from the project, the burden of maintenance falls squarely into the maintainer’s free time, eventually leading to burnout.

Reviewer: > We have an insane burnout index due to none of us being paid to work on Clippy full-time

AFAIK there isn't even anyone being paid to work on Clippy part-time?

Author: Fixed!

> The truth is that Clippy has a reviewing capacity problem, and we’ve been having it for the last few months. We have an insane burnout index due to none of us being paid to work on Clippy full-time. With this lack of official support from the project, the burden of maintenance falls squarely into the maintainer’s free time, eventually leading to burnout.

Reviewer 3: I think I understand what you tried to say, but I think that the current version was too antagonistic, and that it would be more productive if we instead turn it into a call to action to support Rust maintainers.

What about something like this?

```suggestion
The truth is that Clippy has a reviewing capacity problem, and we’ve been having it for the last few months. Unlike some other Rust teams, no one from the Clippy team is currently funded to work on Clippy, not even on a part-time basis. The burden of maintenance thus falls squarely into the maintainer’s free time, eventually leading to burnout.

> We hope that the newly established Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund will be able to help secure some funding for Clippy maintainers. If you'd like to help, consider [donating](https://github.com/sponsors/rustfoundation) to the fund.
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1869/d21a36705e58fb95cf0b8ac2afe543532939c152..d9cca05c597b3e0642212840a12b1d6378eaa8da)*

Reviewer: I agree with the idea, but I find that the second paragraph kind of distracts from the main point of this article? Well I guess that depends on what you consider the most important, I'm somewhat biased towards the review system thing.

I don't want to suggest turning it into merely a footnote, but maybe move the paragraph towards the end or something... Not sure

Reviewer 3: I put it into a quote, which moves it sort of "aside" the main flow of text, like a footnote that is more visible.

But feel free to edit, ofc :)

Reviewer: Oh, that does sound good:)

Author: I didn't mean to sound too antagonistic or move all the "blame" into the project! I'm sorry if it came off that way! I'll change it right away.

Author: Fixed!

That’s why we are launching an initiative in which contributors help themselves get their pull request reviewed and merged *faster*.

## What does this mean

> Once a contributor opens a pull request, we propose them to review another contributor’s pull request. That way each contributor reviews at least once pull request and nobody’s contributions get stale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a contributor opens a pull request, we propose them to review another contributor’s pull request. That way each contributor reviews at least one pull request and nobody’s contributions get stale.
```

> Once a contributor opens a pull request, we propose them to review another contributor’s pull request. That way each contributor reviews at least once pull request and nobody’s contributions get stale.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once a contributor opens a pull request, we propose they review another contributor’s pull request. That way each contributor reviews at least once pull request and nobody’s contributions get stale.
```

(grammar)

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1869/d21a36705e58fb95cf0b8ac2afe543532939c152..d9cca05c597b3e0642212840a12b1d6378eaa8da)*

Author: Fixed!

> The underlying mechanism looks like this: Once a contributor opens a pull request, our dear bot [@bors](https://github.com/bors) will prompt them to look at other pull requests (preferably ones without any other reviews). After they’ve reviewed a pull request, the contributor gets on a special *secret* list of cool ones, and they’ll both remove burden from the maintainers and get a grateful message from bors.

Reviewer: This paragraph makes it sound like reviewing others' PRs is just a nice gesture by a contributor, but I think our plan was for having your PR reviewed by another person be a _requirement_ before an actual maintainer comes and looks at your PR, no?

If you want, I could try expanding on this part. I don't think we need to elaborate _too_ much though – we could link to the blog post about Bevy for further reading.

Author: > before an actual maintainer comes and looks at your PR, no?

I'm not too sure if we were planning to make this a requirement or just a prioritization mechanism. I'll change it.

Reviewer 4: I think to start with it is better to do this as a prioritization mechanism.

"Hey, if you review other people's PRs we'll be more likely to get to yours"

burden of maintenance thus falls squarely into the maintainer’s free time,
eventually leading to burnout.

> We hope that the newly established Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund will be able
> to help secure some funding for Clippy maintainers. If you'd like to help,
> consider [donating] to the fund.

That’s why we are launching an initiative in which contributors help themselves
get their pull request reviewed and merged *faster*.

## What does this mean

Once a contributor opens a pull request, we propose they review another
contributor’s pull request. That way each contributor reviews at least one pull
request and nobody’s contributions get stale.

The underlying mechanism looks like this: Once a contributor opens a pull request,
our dear bot [@rustbot](https://github.com/rustbot) will prompt them to look at other
pull requests (preferably ones without any other reviews). After they’ve reviewed
a pull request, the contributor gets on a special *secret* list of cool ones, and
priority on their pull request from the team's reviewers.

> We want to thank the Bevy project and their ["Open Code Review"] system a

> > inspiration for this new initiative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> We want to thank the Bevy project and their ["Open Code Review"] system as an
> inspiration for this new initiative.
```

*[View changes since the review](https://triagebot.infra.rust-lang.org/gh-changes-since/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/1869/d21a36705e58fb95cf0b8ac2afe543532939c152..fa40b52fdf54709a1bbbd51b12ff28a2fc7c08b3)*
